Update doc (#3)
code-rhapsodie/ezdataflow-bundle: README.md

# Code Rhapsodie eZ Dataflow Bundle

> EzDataflowBundle is a bundle to integrate the [Code Rhapsodie Dataflow bundle](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle) into eZ Platfom 2.0+.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EzDataflowBundle is a bundle integrating [Code Rhapsodie Dataflow bundle](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle) into eZ Platfom 2.0+.
```

Dataflows can be piloted from an interface integrated in eZ Platform backoffice.

> EzDataflow bundle intends to manage content imports from external data sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EzDataflow bundle is intended to manage content imports from external data sources.
```

> > Note: before use this bundle, please read the [Code Rhapsodie Dataflow bundle documentation](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle/blob/master/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: before using this bundle, please read the [Code Rhapsodie Dataflow bundle documentation](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle/blob/master/README.md).
```

> # Code-Rhapsodie EzDataflow Bundle

Reviewer 2: Code Rhapsodie eZ Dataflow bundle

> EzDataflowBundle is a bundle to integrate the Code-Rhapsodie DataflowBundle into eZ Platfom 2.0+.

Reviewer 2: `The eZ Dataflow bundle` ... the `Code Rhapsodie Dataflow bundle`.
Are sure we are compatible with Platform 2.0+ ?

Reviewer: Compatible with 2.0 ~ 2.5 at least. The admin UI is still the same in 3.0, so it should be okay too.

Reviewer 2: Ok, then, have you checked this : https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform/blob/v2.0.0/composer.json ? any dependency conflict ?

Author: The requirements of the DataflowBundle and the EzDataflowBundle are compatible with the eZ Platform 2.0 requirements.

Reviewer 3: The requirements of the DataflowBundle and the EzDataflowBundle are compatible with eZ Platform 2.0 requirements.

> These dataflows can be piloted from an UI integrated in eZ Platform Admin UI.

Reviewer 2: `an UI` => `an interface`
`in eZ ..` => `in the eZ Platform backoffice`

> These dataflows can be piloted from an UI integrated in eZ Platform Admin UI.

Reviewer 3: Dataflows from DataflowBundle are managed with an UI integrated in eZ Platform Admin UI.

> The EzDataflow bundle is intended to manage content imports from external data sources.

Reviewer 3: EzDataflow bundle intends to manage content imports from external data sources.

## User Interface (UI)

> The UI lets you create workflow processes from any defined `DataflowTypes`, and set that process options.

Reviewer 3: ...and set options to each.

Processes can be set to run either:
- as soon as possible, meaning the next time the queue is processed

> - at a given date and time

Reviewer: I think this would be more informative:

```
Processes can be set to run either:
- only once, at a given date and time
- regularly, by defining the first run date and time, and the interval between subsequent runs
```

## Installation

### Step 1: Install the bundle via composer

```shell script
$ composer require code-rhapsodie/ezdataflow-bundle
```

### Step 2: Enable the bundle

#### Symfony 4 (new tree)

> For Symfony 4, add `CodeRhapsodie\DataflowBundle\CodeRhapsodieDataflowBundle::class => ['all' => true],`

Reviewer 3: For Symfony 4, add those two lines in your `config/bundles.php` file : 
```
<?php
...
```

Reviewer 4: Can't we have a recipe for this ? 🤔

and `CodeRhapsodie\EzDataflowBundle\CodeRhapsodieEzDataflowBundle::class => ['all' => true],`
in the `config/bundles.php` file.

Like this:

```php
<?php

return [
     // ...
    CodeRhapsodie\DataflowBundle\CodeRhapsodieDataflowBundle::class => ['all' => true],
    CodeRhapsodie\EzDataflowBundle\CodeRhapsodieEzDataflowBundle::class => ['all' => true],
    // ...
];
```

#### Symfony 3.4 (old tree)

> For Symfony 3.4, add two new line in the `app/AppKernel.php` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Symfony 3.4, add two new lines in the `app/AppKernel.php` file.
```

> For Symfony 3.4, add two new line in the `app/AppKernel.php` file.

Reviewer 3: For Symfony 3.4, add those two lines in your `app/AppKernel.php` file : 
```
<?php ...
```

            } catch (NotFoundException $e) {
                $struct = new ContentCreateStructure(
                    'article',
                    $lang
                    [$parentLocationForNewArticle],
                    $data,
                    $remoteId,
                );
            }

            return $struct;
        });
        $builder->addWriter($this->contentWriter);
    }
}
```

# Admin UI

## Access to the eZ Dataflow UI

You can access the eZ Dataflow administration UI from your eZ Platform admin back-office.

![Admin menu](src/Resources/doc/ez_dataflow_admin_menu.jpg)

1. Click to "Admin"
1. Click to "eZ Dataflow"

## Scheduled dataflow list

When you access to the eZ Dataflow administration UI, you going here:

![Scheduled dataflow list](src/Resources/doc/scheduled_list.jpg)

1. Scheduled dataflow list
1. Button to add a new scheduled dataflow
1. Tools available for each scheduled dataflow. In order from left to right :
   1. Display the history for this dataflow schedule
   1. Edit this dataflow schedule
   1. Enable/Disable this dataflow schedule
   1. Delete this dataflow schedule

> > Note: You can define many schedule for one dataflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: You can define more than one schedule for any given dataflow.
```

### Step 3: Import bundle routing file

```yaml
# app/config/routing.yml or config/routing.yaml

_cr.dataflow:
    resource: '@CodeRhapsodieEzDataflowBundle/Resources/config/routing.yaml'
```

### Step 4: Update the database schema

> For this step, refer you to the [Code-Rhapsodie Dataflow Bundle installation guide](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle#update-the-database).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this step, please refer to [Code-Rhapsodie Dataflow Bundle installation guide](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle#update-the-database).
```

> For this step, refer you to the [Code-Rhapsodie Dataflow Bundle installation guide](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle#update-the-database).

Reviewer 3: Please refer to the [Code-Rhapsodie Dataflow Bundle installation guide](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle#update-the-database).

### Step 5: Schedule the job runner

> For this step, refer you to the [Code-Rhapsodie Dataflow Bundle Queue section](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle#queue).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this step, please refer to [Code-Rhapsodie Dataflow Bundle Queue section](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle#queue).
```

## Configuration

By default, the `ContentWriter` will publish contents using the `admin` user. If you want to use another user (with sufficient permissions), you can configure it like this:

```yaml
# app/config/config.yml or config/packages/code_rhapsodie_ez_dataflow.yaml

code_rhapsodie_ez_dataflow:
    # Integer values are assumed to be user ids, non-integer values are assumed to be user logins
    admin_login_or_id: webmaster
```

## Define your Dataflow

> Before using the admin UI for manage your dataflows, you need to define them. Please refer to [Code-Rhapsodie Dataflow type documentation](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle#define-a-dataflow-type).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Before using the admin UI to manage your dataflows, you need to define them. Please refer to [Code-Rhapsodie Dataflow type documentation](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle#define-a-dataflow-type).
```

> Before use the admin UI for manage your dataflows, you need define it. Please refer you to the [Code-Rhapsodie Dataflow type documentation](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle#define-a-dataflow-type).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using the admin UI for manage your dataflows, you need to define them. Please refer to [Code-Rhapsodie Dataflow type documentation](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle#define-a-dataflow-type).
```

## Use the ContentWriter

> To add or update content in your Ez content, you can use  the `CodeRhapsodie\EzDataflowBundle\Writer\ContentWriter` writer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add or update eZ Platform contents, you can use the `CodeRhapsodie\EzDataflowBundle\Writer\ContentWriter` writer.
```

> ### Step 1: Inject the dependencie and add the writer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Inject the dependencies and add the writer
```

> Inject the `ContentWriter` service into the constructor of your DataflowType and add the content writter into the writer list like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inject the `ContentWriter` service into the constructor of your DataflowType and add the content writer into the writer list like this:
```

```php
// In your DataflowType

use CodeRhapsodie\EzDataflowBundle\Writer\ContentWriter;
use CodeRhapsodie\DataflowBundle\DataflowType\AbstractDataflowType;
[...]

class MyDataflowType extends AbstractDataflowType
{
    //[...]
    /**
     * @var ContentWriter
     */
    private $contentWriter;

    public function __construct(ContentWriter $contentWriter)
    {
        $this->contentWriter = $contentWriter;
    }
    //[...]
    protected function buildDataflow(DataflowBuilder $builder, array $options): void
    {
        //[...]
        $builder->addWriter($this->contentWriter);
    }
}
```

### Step 2: Add a step for prepare the content

> To process eZ Platform content into your Dataflow, you need transform the data in objet `ContentCreateStructure` or `ContentUpdateStructure`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To process eZ Platform content into your Dataflow, you need to transform the data into `ContentCreateStructure` or `ContentUpdateStructure` objects.
```

> for create or update content respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in order to respectively create or update contents.
```

> But, for determine if the content exist or not, you need search into the eZ Platform content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But, in order to determine if the content already exists or not, you first need to look up for it.
```

> One way is use the remote id for search the content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One way is to use the remote id to search for the content.
```

In the following example, the remote id pattern is `article-<id>` with the `<id>` replaced by the data id provided by the reader.

> For check if the content exist or not, I use the service `ContentService` provided by eZ Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check if the content exists or not, I use the service `ContentService` provided by eZ Platform.
```

> The step is added with anonymous function and has 3 types of return:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The step is added as an anonymous function and has 3 types of return values:
```

> * When the step return `false`, the data is dropped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When the step returns `false`, the data is dropped.
```

> * When the step return a `ContentCreateStructure`, the data will be saved into en new eZ Platform content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When the step returns a `ContentCreateStructure`, the data will be saved into a new eZ Platform content.
```

> * When the step return a `ContentUpdateStructure`, the data will be saved into the existing eZ Platform content in overwriting all defined fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When the step returns a `ContentUpdateStructure`, the existing eZ Platform content will be updated by overwriting all defined fields in the data.
```

> For the new content, you must provide one or more "parent location id" in the 3th argument of the `ContentCreateStructure` constructor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the new content, you must provide one or more "parent location id" as the 3rd argument of the `ContentCreateStructure` constructor.
```

> In this exemple, I have add a new folder for store all articles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, I have added a new folder to store all articles.
```

> For get the location id of the parent eZ Platform content, go to the admin UI and select the future parent content, click on the details tabs, and read the "Location id" like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the location id of the parent eZ Platform content, go to the admin UI and select the future parent content, click on the details tabs, and read the "Location id" like this:
```

![parent folder](src/Resources/doc/dest_folder.jpg)

> > Note: the best practice is to define this parent id in your `parameter.yml` file or your `.env.local` file for each execution environment.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> Note: the best practice is to define this parent id in your `parameters.yml` file or your `.env.local` file for each execution environment.
```

```php
// In your DataflowType

use CodeRhapsodie\EzDataflowBundle\Writer\ContentWriter;
use CodeRhapsodie\DataflowBundle\DataflowType\AbstractDataflowType;
use eZ\Publish\API\Repository\ContentService;
[...]

class MyDataflowType extends AbstractDataflowType
{
    //[...]
    /**
     * @var ContentWriter
     */
    private $contentWriter;

    /**
     * @var ContentService
     */
    private $contentService;

    public function __construct(ContentWriter $contentWriter, ContentService $contentService)
    {
        $this->contentWriter = $contentWriter;
        $this->contentService = $contentService;
    }
    //[...]
    protected function buildDataflow(DataflowBuilder $builder, array $options): void
    {
        //[...]
        $builder->addStep(function ($data) {
            if (!isset($data['id'])) {
                return false;
            }

            $remoteId = sprintf('article-%d', $data['id']);
            unset($data['id']);

>             $parent_location_for_new_article = 54;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            $parentLocationForNewArticle = 54;
```

Reviewer: Camel case even in example code

            $lang = 'eng-GB';
            try {
                $content = $this->contentService->loadContentByRemoteId($remoteId);
                $struct = ContentUpdateStructure::createForContentId($content->id, $lang, $data);
            } catch (NotFoundException $e) {
                $struct = new ContentCreateStructure(
                    'article',
                    $lang

>                     [$parent_location_for_new_article],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    [$parentLocationForNewArticle],
```

                    $data,
                    $remoteId,
                );
            }

            return $struct;
        });
        $builder->addWriter($this->contentWriter);
    }
}
```

# Admin UI

## Access to the eZ Dataflow UI

> You can access to the eZ Dataflow administation UI from your eZ Platform admin back-office.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can access the eZ Dataflow administration UI from your eZ Platform admin back-office.
```

![Admin menu](src/Resources/doc/ez_dataflow_admin_menu.jpg)

1. Click to "Admin"
1. Click to "eZ Dataflow"

## Add a new schedule

Go to the eZ Dataflow admin, and click on the "+" orange button. 

> Il the new popin, complete the fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the new popin, fill in the fields:
```

![Add a new schedule](src/Resources/doc/add_new_schedule.jpg)

1. Type the Dataflow name

> 1. Select the Dataflow type. The list is automaticaly generated from the list of Symfony service with the tags `coderhapsodie.dataflow.type`. If your dataflow type is not present, [check the configuration](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle#check-if-your-dataflowtype-is-ready)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Select the Dataflow type. The list is automatically generated from the list of Symfony services with the tags `coderhapsodie.dataflow.type`. If your dataflow type is not present, [check the configuration](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle#check-if-your-dataflowtype-is-ready)
```

> 1. Select the Dataflow type. The list is automaticaly generated from the list of Symfony service with the tags `coderhapsodie.dataflow.type`. If your dataflow type is not present, [check the configuration](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle#check-if-your-dataflowtype-is-ready)

Reviewer 2: > The list is automaticaly generated from the list of Symfony service with the tags

The list is automatical**l**y populated with Symfony services tagged with `coderhapsodie.dataflow.type`

> 1. Type here the Dataflow options. Format: one option per line and option name and value with `:` separator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Type here the Dataflow options. Basic expected format: one option per line and option name and value separated with `:`. For more complex options, the whole YAML format is supported.
```

1. Type here the frequency. The value must be compatible with the the PHP [strtotime](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.strtotime.php) function.

> 1. Choice the date and time of the first job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Choose the date and time of the first job.
```

> 1. Check if you want run this Dataflow.

Reviewer 2: if you want **to** run

Finally, click on the "Create" button.

## Read the history

> When you click on the "History" tab in the eZ Dataflow admin UI, you view the job history for all Dataflow configured and executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you click on the "History" tab in the eZ Dataflow admin UI, the job history for all Dataflow configured and executed is displayed.
```

![History list](src/Resources/doc/history_list.jpg)

1. The history list
1. This column shows the number of objects that have been processed.

> 1. Click on the question mark for display the job details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click on the question mark to display the job details.
```

Details of one scheduled job:

![Job execution details](src/Resources/doc/job_successful.jpg)

## One-shot job

> If you don't want run a Dataflow periodically, you can add a single execution at the time and date what you want.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you don't want to run a Dataflow periodically, you can add a single execution at the time and date that you want.
```

> If you don't want run a Dataflow periodically, you can add a single execution at the time and date what you want.

Reviewer 2: the time and the date ~what~ you want

> Go to the eZ Dataflow admin UI and click on the "Oneshot" tabs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Go to the eZ Dataflow admin UI and click on the "Oneshot" tab.
```

![Oneshot list](src/Resources/doc/oneshot_list.jpg)

> 1. This button, allow you to define the one-shot job (see below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. This button allows you to define the one-shot job (see below).
```

1. This column shows the number of objects that have been processed.

> 1. Click on the question mark for display the job details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click on the question mark to display the job details.
```

Details of one-shot job:

![onshot details](src/Resources/doc/job_fail.jpg)

Here the job has fail.

## Add a one-shot job

> Go to the eZ Dataflow admin UI and click on the "Oneshot" tabs. Click to the "+" orange button to open the adding popin.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Go to the eZ Dataflow admin UI and click on the "Oneshot" tab. Click to the "+" orange button to open the adding popin.
```

> Go to the eZ Dataflow admin UI and click on the "Oneshot" tabs. Click to the "+" orange button to open the adding popin.

Reviewer 2: `click on`

> Go to the eZ Dataflow admin UI and click on the "Oneshot" tabs. Click to the "+" orange button for open the adding popin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go to the eZ Dataflow admin UI and click on the "Oneshot" tabs. Click to the "+" orange button to open the adding popin.
```

![The add one-shot popin](src/Resources/doc/one_shot_job.jpg)

1. Type the Dataflow name

> 1. Select the Dataflow type. The list is automaticaly generated from the list of Symfony service with the tags `coderhapsodie.dataflow.type`. If your dataflow type is not present, [check the configuration](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle#check-if-your-dataflowtype-is-ready)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Select the Dataflow type. The list is automatically generated from the list of Symfony services with the tags `coderhapsodie.dataflow.type`. If your dataflow type is not present, [check the configuration](https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle#check-if-your-dataflowtype-is-ready)
```

Reviewer 4: Aren't these explanations already above ?

Author: Yes, the forms to adding a new scheduled dataflow or one-shot dataflow have the same fields.

> 1. Type here the Dataflow options. Format: one option per line and option name and value with `:` separator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Type here the Dataflow options. Basic expected format: one option per line and option name and value separated with `:`. For more complex options, the whole YAML format is supported.
```

> 1. Choice the date and time of the first job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Choose the date and time of the first job.
```

Finally, click on the "Create" button.

# Issues and feature requests

> Please report issues and request features at https://github.com/code-rhapsodie/dataflow-bundle/issues.

Reviewer 2: `ezdataflow-bundle` not `dataflow-bundle`
